# Ashen Mist Heart

Next on the agenda is to collect the Ashen Mist Heart from the Ancient Dragon.
There is no need to fight the boss. Exhausting its dialogue is sufficient for
you to receive the item. The path to the Ancient Dragon is dangerous because it
is easy to trigger enemies to gank you. Equip the Ring of Life Protection,
choose which enemies to fight, and carefully dash to the arena of the Ancient
Dragon.

{% youtube id="koS6vvPjp6k", title="Speedrun through Dragon Shrine NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

## Dragon Shrine

Start from the Shrine Entrance bonfire. Ascend a flight of stairs to find a
Drakekeeper surrounded by various Dragon Knights. Running past all enemies would
trigger them to chase after you. However, if you fight the Drakekeeper, then the
Dragon Knights would not gank you and allow you to honour fight the Drakekeeper.
Crystal Soul Spear should allow you to kill the Drakekeeper within three to four
casts. Consume a Brightbug to boost your damage output. Defeat the Drakekeeper
and you can safely proceed to the next area. Here you will find another
Drakekeeper surrounded by another group of Dragon Knights. Repeat the same
honour fight to allow you safe passage through the area. Rinse and repeat for
the third Drakekeeper. Proceed through two doors to find an ascending flight of
stairs guarded by a gang of Dragon Knights and a Greatsword-wielding Dragon
Knight. You are meant to duel the Greatsword-wielding Dragon Knight, but this
Dragon Knight is much more difficult to fight than any of the Drakekeepers. Run
past all enemies, head up the staircase, and dodge your way to the Ancient
Dragon. Exhaust the dialogue of the Ancient Dragon to receive the Ashen Mist
Heart. As long as you are close to the Ancient Dragon, the Dragon Knights would
not be able to approach you. Collect the Ashen Mist Heart and warp back to the
Shrine Entrance bonfire.
