# Covetous Demon

Up next is the Covetous Demon, who blocks the path to Mytha. The path to the
Covetous Demon is rather easy. The only dangerous enemies to be wary of are the
Desert Sorceresses scattered throughout the path.

{% youtube id="Up4YQucQLRE", title="Speedrun through Harvest Valley and Earthen Peak NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

## Harvest Valley

From the Poison Pool bonfire find Stone Trader Chloanne sitting on a boulder.
Consume a Poison Moss to remove the poison buildup. Purchase anything you need
from Chloanne, but you should have already stocked up on all items you need.
Have plenty of Poison Moss ready. Harvest Valley is a poison area. Equip the
Silvercat Ring (or the Flying Feline Boots) and jump off the edge to the ground
below; this is a shortcut. Get out of the poison fume as quickly as possible and
consume a Poison Moss to remove the poison buildup.

Have a full HP bar because the upcoming area has Desert Sorceress x 2, whose
most deadly attacks are their pyromancy. Head as quickly as possible for the
ladder to your right, being careful to avoid the volleys of fireballs from the
pyromancers. Climb the ladder and then prepare to defeat the Desert Sorceress
near the lever. A safe strategy is to lock onto the pyromancer and spam Crystal
Soul Spear at her from afar. Be careful. She can launch a volley of fireballs at
you. Should you choose to approach her, she would blow a kiss to conjure a
lingering fireball that can one-shot you. Dispatch of the Desert Sorceress, then
the Undead Laborer x 2 if you want. Pull the lever to raise the gate that opens
the path to The Mines bonfire. Rest at the bonfire and attune any spells you
need for the upcoming boss fight. In particular, you might want to attune
Crystal Soul Spear for the fight. Have a greatbow and greatarrows ready as well.
Now sprint as fast as you can to the arena of the Covetous Demon.

## Covetous Demon

{% youtube id="9WSxUF8r-os", title="Sorcerer versus Covetous Demon NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

This boss is easy to cheese. The trick is to use a greatbow and greatarrow to
break one of three large pots hanging from the ceiling. The Undead Laborer in
the pot would be dropped onto the ground to serve as a distraction for the boss.
The Covetous Demon would be drawn to the Undead Laborer and tries to devour the
enemy. While the boss is distracted, spam Crystal Soul Spear at it. You should
be able to cast at least three times before the boss takes notice of you. Use a
greatbow to break another large pot. Rinse and repeat the cheese strategy.

As soon as you enter the arena, use a greatbow and greatarrow to break the
middle hanging pot. Quickly lock onto the boss and cast Crystal Soul Spear at
least two times. While the boss is devouring the Undead Laborer, it would take
significantly reduced damage. Wait until you see your soul counter increasing,
then start spamming Crystal Soul Spear at the boss. You should be able to cast
enough times to empty your Stamina bar. Ready your greatbow and aim at the
hanging pot to your right, waiting for the boss to approach your character. When
the boss is close enough to be able to attack your character, shoot a greatarrow
at the pot. Roll to your right to dodge an incoming attack. Lock onto the boss
and wait for your Stamina bar to fully regenerate. Now spam Crystal Soul Spear
at the boss until it is defeated.

Defeat the Covetous Demon and light the Lower Earthen Peak bonfire.
