# Demon of Song

Like Iron Keep, Shrine of Amana is an area where you should avoid rushing
through. Enemies at Shrine of Amana are tougher than those at Iron Keep and they
can easily gank you to death. The area is as tedious to fight through as Iron
Keep. You might find that sorcery is not effective against enemies in this area.
A sorcery/melee hybrid should allow you to easily defeat all enemies blocking
your path. The most dangerous enemies at Shrine of Amana are the Lindelt
Clerics. They usually gank you in groups of three. Each Lindelt Cleric has
immense poise and can tank through your melee attacks. Always fight one Lindelt
Cleric at a time. The best strategy is to bait the three attacks combination,
then go in for the punish. Consume one or more Brightbugs as you slog through
the area, or use the Brightbug glitch to help you conserve your stock of
Brightbugs. Equip the Spell Quartz Ring+3 and consume a Small Blue Burr to boost
your magic defense. The Spell Quartz Ring+3 and the defense boost from a
Brightbug are usually more than enough.

## Shrine of Amana

{% youtube id="U6TCVV_E-DY", title="Slog through Shrine of Amana NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

Start from the Tower of Prayer bonfire. Head down two spiral staircases and look
for a Lindelt Cleric in the distance. Use a bow and arrows to lure the enemy to
your location, then carefully defeat the enemy. A number of Lizardmen are
lurking in the shallow water, trying to ambush you. They are being lulled by the
singing of a Milfanito found inside the hut. Dispatch of the various Lizardmen
to clear a safe path for when you need to retreat. In the far distance can be
found Lindelt Cleric x 3. Use a bow and arrows to lure one Lindelt Cleric to
your location, and all Lindelt Cleric x 3 would dash at you. Retreat back to the
foot of the tower from whence you came. You want the Lindelt Cleric x 3 to
retreat so you can approach one Lindelt Cleric for a one-on-one battle. Rinse
and repeat for the remaining Lindelt Cleric x 2. Behind the hut is a wooden
chest containing Crimson Water x 3. The items can replenish your number of spell
casting. The chest is located near a Curse Jar. Equip the Hollow Skin for
immunity against the curse buildup.

Proceed ahead, enter the mist, and light the Crumbled Ruins bonfire. Rest at the
bonfire as necessary. Now the difficult section of Shrine of Amana begins. Equip
the Spell Quartz Ring+3 to boost your magic defense, in addition to consuming a
Brightbug. Consuming a Small Blue Burr would remove the buff from the Brightbug.
Amana Shrine Maiden x 2 are stationed near the bonfire. Dispatch of the enemies,
then look for Lizardman x 4 near a crumbled stone column. The stone column is
inclined upward. Defeat the Lizardman x 2 nearest to your character. An Old
Knight stands in the shallow water, blending in with the environment. This enemy
would not be aggressive as long as you stay away from him. Find a Lizardman
nearest to an Amana Shrine Maiden. Use a bow and arrows to shoot it once, then
retreat to the stone path near the bonfire. Shooting the Lizardman would also
trigger a red phantom to approach you. You want the red phantom to approach you
instead of staying near various Amana Shrine Maidens. In some rare cases, the
red phantom refuses to dash at you, meaning that you must fight the red phantom
near some annoying enemies. Defeat the Lizardman as quickly as possible, then
deal with the red phantom. You want to fight the red phantom away from the Old
Knight. Next, defeat the Amana Shrine Maiden x 3. Look for another group of
Amana Shrine Maiden x 2. One of them stands between Lizardman x 2, the other
stands to the side of a hut. Defeat the enemies, then find a Lindelt Cleric
patrolling near the hut. Defeat this enemy and look for a gang of Lindelt Cleric
x 4 in the far distance. Use a bow and arrows to lure the left-most Lindelt
Cleric to your location, where you can engage in one-on-one battle. The
remaining Lindelt Cleric x 3 are triggered as a group. Enter the hut to summon
Lone Hunter Schmidt to assist you against the Lindelt Cleric x 3. Shoot an arrow
at a Lindelt Cleric to lure him to your location. The best case scenario is the
Lindelt Cleric x 3 would be distracted by Lone Hunter Schmidt, attacking him
while you sprint towards the fog wall in the distance. Enter the mist and light
the Rhoy's Resting Place bonfire. Rest at the bonfire and attune any spells you
need for the upcoming boss fight.

Near the bonfire are found various Acid Horn Beetles. A Giant Acid Horn Beetle
blocks the path to the area boss. Defeat the Giant Acid Horn Beetle, then
carefully dash to the boss' fog wall. Ignore all enemies, even the scripted NPC
invader. Enter the mist and heal up as necessary.

## Demon of Song

{% youtube id="XQpqH_Yqv7k", title="Sorcerer versus Demon of Song NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

Crystal Soul Spear is effective against this boss. Upon entering the arena, walk
a bit to the edge of the water and cast Crystal Soul Spear at the boss. You
should be able to hit the boss a few times before it covers its head in the
impenetrable hide. Approach the boss, being up close to it to lure the head out.
Then back away to a safe distance and cast Crystal Soul Spear. If you are fast
enough, you should be able to cast three to five times. Rinse and repeat until
the boss is defeated. The most devastating attack is the water cannon as it can
one- or two-shot your character.

Defeat the Demon of Song, exit the arena, and find a Royal Guard blocking an
iron gate. The Royal Guard can be parried and riposted. Alternatively, power
stance two great hammers or two ultra great swords and overwhelm the enemy with
your sheer strength. Defeat the Royal Guard, open the gate, and ride the
elevator down to Undead Crypt. Use the time of the long elevator ride to
unclutter your inventory, discarding items you collected so far but do not need.
Find and light the Undead Crypt Entrance bonfire.
