# Prowling Magus and Congregation

Prowling Magus is the boss of upper Brightstone Cove Tseldora. The boss guards
the entrance to lower Brightstone Cove Tseldora, where the lair of Freja is
located.

## Upper Brightstone Cove Tseldora

Light the Royal Army Campsite bonfire and attune any spells you need for the
upcoming boss. The Undead Peasants are easily distracted by Alluring Skull and
Yearn. The first group of Undead Peasants are close by the bonfire. Ignore this
group of enemies. Far ahead is a second group of Undead Peasants near the edge
of a cliff. Approach this group of enemies and defeat them. Distract them with
Yearn (or Alluring Skull) while you cast Crystal Soul Spear at them. Clearing
these enemies would preempt them from harassing you while you deal with your
first encounter with Freja. In NG+1 and beyond, you will encounter Freja two
times. The first encounter is at the cliff outside the arena of Prowling Magus.
The second encounter is at Freja's lair in lower Brightstone Cove Tseldora.

## Freja, first encounter

{% youtube id="sofhTKSyDhU", title="Sorcerer versus Freja on the cliff edge NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

In your first encounter with Freja, you will fight it near a cliff. There is
precious room to fight and manoeuvre. Freja has various deadly attacks. The acid
spit can take a good chunk of your HP and deplete the durability of your
equipment. If your character is positioned close enough to Freja, it would slam
one of its legs on your character and possibly one- or two-shot you. Take the
opportunity to deal some damage to Freja because the HP loss will carry over to
the second encounter.

Freja is weak against strike damage and most vulnerable against fire. Buff your
weapon with Flame Weapon and hit Freja's head. The melee strategy requires you
to be up close in Freja's face. The area in front of Freja can be extremely
tight with not much room for movement. Rolling is the best way to avoid any of
Freja's attacks. You might also want to cast Crystal Soul Spear at the boss'
head. The sorcery strategy allows you to be rather far away from Freja. However,
Freja would occasionally spit acid at your character and might even slam its
legs on your character. Regardless of which strategy you choose, ensure you do
not stray to the right near the iron door where a group of Undead Peasant x 3 is
located. You do not want to aggravate the Undead Peasants and turn the fight
into a 4-versus-1 gank.

After a while, Freja would be bored of you and crawl back to its lair. Dispatch
of the Undead Peasant x 3, open the iron gate, and proceed to the fog wall of
Prowling Magus. Near the fog wall are various large jars, one of which contains
a Human Effigy. Take the time to perform any last minute preparation such as
ensuring you have Alluring Skulls ready and/or have already attuned Yearn. Yearn
should be the preferred option because it lasts for 10 seconds, longer than
Alluring Skull.

## Prowling Magus and Congregation

{% youtube id="RcGxEdpJEkY", title="Sorcerer versus Prowling Magus and Congregation NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

You will face off against a gank boss. Prowling Magus is the sorcerer who dons
the Warlock Mask. This enemy is supported by Hollow Priest x 2, each of which
can heal its allies but not itself. The Hollow Priests are dangerous because
their lightning miracles can remove a decent chunk of your HP. Their acolytes
are Undead Laborer x 5 and Undead Supplicant x 3, each of which is rather slow
but together can easily gank your character to death.

Sorcery is an effective and easy strategy against the gank boss. Enter the fog
wall and immediately cast Yearn, aiming for the wall to your left or the corner
of the room diagonally to your left. Yearn would distract the Undead Laborers
and Undead Supplicants. Be ready for incoming lightning attacks from the Hollow
Priest x 2. Roll to your right to dodge the lightning. Lock onto the Hollow
Priest to your right and spam Crystal Soul Spear at the enemy. With some quick
casting, you should be able to defeat this enemy before Prowling Magus cast a
hex at you. A safer strategy consists in casting Crystal Soul Spear two times at
the right-most Hollow Priest, wait for Prowling Magus to cast a hex, dodge the
hex, and land the killing blow on the right-most Hollow Priest. Next,
concentrate on defeating the remaining Hollow Priest, then Prowling Magus. The
remaining enemies would be easy to handle once you have gotten rid of the spell
casters. Profound Still can prevent enemies from casting spells near your
vicinity, but the hex lasts for 30 seconds.

Defeat Prowling Magus and Congregation, then light the Chapel Threshold bonfire.
