# Scorpioness Najka

Najka blocks the path to Brightstone Cove Tseldora, where you can find Freja.
The Duke's Dear Freja is one of four mandatory bosses who must be defeated to
unlock the Shrine of Winter. To reach Najka at Shaded Woods, you must unpetrify
Rosabeth. Have a Fragrant Branch of Yore in your inventory. You should have
collected the Fragrant Branch found in the iron chest after defeating the Lost
Sinner. A Fragrant Branch is found near the entrance to the Black Gulch.

## Shaded Woods

{% youtube id="ORQ_PuQRR00", title="Speedrun through Shaded Woods NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

Start from the Far Fire bonfire and head to the tree where you find a Devine
Blessing. Ahead of you are two paths. The left path takes you back to Things
Betwixt. The right path leads to Rosabeth. Take the right path. Along the way,
you will meet Benhart of Jugo. It is safe to ignore him and not follow his quest
line. His summon sign would be available outside the arena of the last boss
regardless of whether you follow his quest line.

Find Rosabeth petrified and standing in front of a lever. Use a Fragrant Branch
of Yore to unpetrify Rosabeth and pull the lever. Have Alluring Skulls ready to
distract the Goblins who will jump down onto the ground. Throw an Alluring
Skull, aiming your throw at the entrance from which you came, which should now
be blocked by an iron gate. Count to five and throw another Alluring Skull at
the same location. Count to five again, then throw a third Alluring Skull. Watch
your back. An iron gate is slowly opening to reveal a Basilisk behind you. Kill
the Basilisk, run to the next iron gate, and throw an Alluring Skull at the
direction from which you came. Wait for the iron gate to fully open, then dash
to the Ruined Fork Road bonfire. Along the way, you will meet two groups of
Goblins. They are easily distracted by Alluring Skulls. Light the Ruined Fork
Road bonfire as you will need this bonfire later on to reach Drangleic Castle
and Aldia's Keep.

The Ruined Fork Road bonfire branches out along three paths. The left-most path
leads to Drangleic Castle, the middle path leads to Aldia's Keep, and the
right-most path leads to the misty woods. Take the right-most path. Have a bow
and arrows ready to shoot at a large tree trunk in the distance. When attacked,
the large tree trunk would moan like Chewbacca and the sound would attract the
Forest Guardians at the misty woods. With the Forest Guardians distracted by the
moan, dash through the misty woods, keeping to your left. You will find a path
that leads to Head of Vengarl. Ignore this path and continue along the left side
of the misty woods. Soon you will encounter another large tree trunk. Ignore
this tree trunk and continue along the left path to find an upward slope that
leads to the Shaded Ruins bonfire. Rest at the bonfire and attune any spells you
need for the upcoming boss fight. In particular, consider attuning Great Chaos
Fireball or Flame Weapon to fight Najka. On a platform above the Shaded Ruins
bonfire are some Radiant Lifegems. Collect them as necessary or ignore if you
already have plenty of healing consumables.

The path to Najka is littered with Curse Jars. Being near a Curse Jar can build
up your curse metre. A full curse bar would result in instant death. Equip the
Hollow Skin or the Black Witch Veil to nullify the curse buildup. You can
unequip the item once you have reached the fog wall of Najka.

## Scorpioness Najka

{% youtube id="5fosyNb18JM", title="Cheese Scorpioness Najka NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

{% youtube id="ReoHbPyedgs", title="Scorpioness Najka foils your cheese NG+7, Dark Souls 2 SotFS" %}{% endyoutube %}

Najka takes extra damage from thrust attacks and is most vulnerable against
fire. Buff the Ice Rapier+5 with Flame Weapon.

An easy cheese consists in luring Najka through a narrow opening, which is
located to the right side of the arena from where you first enter the fog wall.
The boss usually cannot go through the opening and get herself stuck there,
trying to reach you. In some rare instances she can clip herself past the
opening and ruin the cheese strategy. While Najka is stuck in the narrow
opening, cast Great Chaos Fireball at her and continue doing so until she dies.
Equip the Fire Clutch Ring to boost your fire attacks.

Defeat Najka and continue on the path to Brightstone Cove Tseldora. Before you
exit a building to light the Royal Army Campsite bonfire, look for some large
jars near the exit. One of the jars contains some Radiant Lifegems.
